README.md, before:

# Usage
```help
    usage: vimtabdiff.py [-h] [--vim VIM] pathA pathB

    Show diff of files from two directories in vim tabs

    positional arguments:
      pathA
      pathB

    options:
      -h, --help  show this help message and exit
      --vim VIM   vim command to run
```

# Git difftool


## Setup
```bash
    git config --global difftool.vimtabdiff.cmd 'vimtabdiff.py $LOCAL $REMOTE'
    git config --global alias.dt 'difftool --tool vimtabdiff --dir-diff'
```

## Usage

```bash
    git dt <any git diff revision expression> # see `man gitrevisions`
    git dt           # Unstaged changes
    git dt --staged  # Staged changes
    git dt HEAD~1    # Last commit
    git di v1.0 v2.0 # diff between two tags
```

## Using custom vim command

```bash
    git config --global difftool.vimtabdiff.cmd 'vimtabdiff.py --vim "vim --clean" $LOCAL $REMOTE'
```

Git config file (`~/.gitconfig`) should look like this

```toml
    [alias]
            ...
            dt = difftool --tool vimtabdiff --dir-diff
    [difftool "vimtabdiff"]
            cmd = vimtabdiff.py --vim \"vim --clean\" $LOCAL $REMOTE
```


# Known issues

  1. If your path to custom vim has space, it does not work. i.e. Following does *not* work

      ```bash
      git config --global difftool.vimtabdiff.cmd 'vimtabdiff.py --vim "/home/foo/my files/bin/vim" $LOCAL $REMOTE'
      ```
  2. Not tested in non-linux OS. Pull requests welcome if found any issues.

# Similar

  https://gist.github.com/Osse/4709787

Commit message:

Use shlex to split custom vim command
This allows to include spaces in vim command
Add example to change default diff algorithm
Move to first line on each file

Backport from da5e24260

README.md, after:

Do you use `git difftool` to review changes before making a commit? The problem with that is that you get to see the diff of one file at a time. You can't easily stop it after few files and you can't go back to a previous file. `vimtabdiff.py` loads all the files with diffs, one in each vim tab page. You can move around any file and edit the diffs easily.


# Install

```bash
    mkdir -p ~/bin

    # for python version >= 3.10
    curl -o ~/bin/vimtabdiff.py "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/balki/vimtabdiff/master/vimtabdiff.py"

    # for python version < 3.10
    curl -o ~/bin/vimtabdiff.py "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/balki/vimtabdiff/py38/vimtabdiff.py"

    chmod +x ~/bin/vimtabdiff.py
```

You may need to add `~/bin` to your PATH variable if not already done. See [here](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Environment_variables#Per_user) for help.
👍 this [issue](https://github.com/balki/vimtabdiff/issues/1) for `pip install` support 


# Screenshot
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/189196/206880555-c71b472c-144c-4c82-a4ab-f8a4fd36f7a5.png)

# Usage
```help
    usage: vimtabdiff.py [-h] [--vim VIM] pathA pathB

    Show diff of files from two directories in vim tabs

    positional arguments:
      pathA
      pathB

    options:
      -h, --help  show this help message and exit
      --vim VIM   vim command to run
```

# Git difftool


## Setup
```bash
    git config --global difftool.vimtabdiff.cmd 'vimtabdiff.py $LOCAL $REMOTE'
    git config --global alias.dt 'difftool --tool vimtabdiff --dir-diff'
```

## Usage

```bash
    git dt <any git diff revision expression> # see `man gitrevisions`
    git dt           # Unstaged changes
    git dt --staged  # Staged changes
    git dt HEAD~1    # Last commit
    git di v1.0 v2.0 # diff between two tags
```

## Using custom vim command

Using clean vim without reading `vimrc`
```bash
    git config --global difftool.vimtabdiff.cmd 'vimtabdiff.py --vim "vim --clean" $LOCAL $REMOTE'
```

Git config file (`~/.gitconfig`) should look like this

```toml
    [alias]
            ...
            dt = difftool --tool vimtabdiff --dir-diff
    [difftool "vimtabdiff"]
            cmd = vimtabdiff.py --vim \"vim --clean\" $LOCAL $REMOTE
```
Using better diff algorithm

```bash
    git config --global difftool.vimtabdiff.cmd 'vimtabdiff.py --vim "vim +\"set diffopt+=algorithm:patience\"" $LOCAL $REMOTE'

```

*Note:* Not tested in non-linux OS. But I guess it should work fine. Pull requests welcome if found any issues.

# Similar

  https://gist.github.com/Osse/4709787
